What is OCD?
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental illness that causes repeated unwanted thoughts or sensations (obsessions) or the urge to do something over and over again (compulsions)
What is depression?
Depression (major depressive disorder) is a common and serious medical illness that negatively affects how you feel, the way you think and how you act. Fortunately, it is also treatable. Depression causes feelings of sadness and/or a loss of interest in activities you once enjoyed. It can lead to a variety of emotional and physical problems and can decrease your ability to function at work and at home.
What are the symptoms of OCD?
Fear of contamination or dirt.Doubting and having difficulty tolerating uncertainty.Needing things orderly and symmetrical.Aggressive or horrific thoughts about losing control and harming yourself or others.Unwanted thoughts, including aggression, or sexual or religious subjects.
what are the symptoms of depression?
Feeling sad or having a depressed mood,Loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed,Changes in appetite weight loss or gain unrelated to dieting,Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much.Loss of energy or increased fatigue,Difficulty thinking, concentrating or making decisions,Thoughts of death or suicide.
what to do If I have suicidal thoughts?
Please discuss your feelings with your family,Try to divert your mind by doing your favourite hobbies,Don't try to be alone in your room,Feel free to open up your problem and speak with your friends and family,If your suicidal thoughts are not resolved by doing above steps use the helpline number:9152987821.
I am suffering from frequent unwanted negative thoughts?
Do you try to get rid of these thoughts.
Yes I tried to do it?
Do you wash or clean a lot.
Yes I clean a lot?
Do you keep checking things over and over again
Yes I do?
Okay You are suffering from OCD Don't worry.
How to overcome OCD?
If you have compulsive behaviour then try not to do it by playing your favourite game or doing your favourite hobbies. Then don't take the unwanted thoughts in a serious manner leave it as it is. Don't take it seriously. You will feel uncomfortable while you are omitting the thoughts and by not doing the compulsive things like washing hands more than a time so, follow these tips to overcome ocd.
What if I suffer from ocd after following the tips?
Don't worry meet your nearby psychiatrist doctors and take medications from them.
How to overcome depression?
Do Exercise.Nurture yourself with good nutrition.Identify troubles, but don't dwell on them.Express yourself.Try to notice good things like try to be optimistic.
What if I suffer more from depression?
In that case please consult the doctor and take medications prescribed by the doctor.
Is depression a mental illness?
Yes, clinical depression is a serious, but treatable, mental illness. It is a medical condition, not a personal weakness.
Do children get depression?
Yes. Children are subject to the same factors that cause depression in adults. These include: A change in physical health, life events, heredity, or inheritance, environment, and chemical disturbance in the brain. It is estimated that 2.5% of children in the U.S. suffer from depression. In adolescents, it is estimated to be 4% to 8%.
Can a lack of sleep cause depression?
No. Lack of sleep alone cannot cause depression, but it does play a role. Lack of sleep resulting from another medical illness or the presence of personal problems can intensify depression. Chronic inability to sleep is also an important clue that someone may be depressed.
Are there any alternatives to the traditional treatments for depression that I can try?
Exercise, sometimes considered an alternative treatment, has gained increasing evidence for its ability to treat mild to moderate forms of depression. Examples of alternative therapies include acupuncture, guided imagery, chiropractic care, yoga, hypnosis, biofeedback, aromatherapy, relaxation, herbal remedies, massage, and many others. If you are interested in trying any of these options, talk to your doctor.
Why are women more likely to get depression?
Women develop depression twice as often as men. One reason may be the various changes in hormone levels that women experience
Do most people with depression attempt to commit suicide?
No. Most people who suffer from depression do not attempt suicide, but according to Mental Health America, 30%-70% of suicide victims have suffered from some form of depression.
Will someone who has had depression get it again?
Having experienced an episode of major depression does put a person at greater risk for future episodes, but not everyone who has recovered from depression will experience it again.
How long does depression last?
If left untreated, various types of depressive disorders can last for months or sometimes years. A major depressive episode is characterized by a set of symptoms that typically lasts for a few months.


